Let's see.
We're going to talk about composition.
I'm going to bring in compose
actually no we'll define it first.
Let's make some functions.
Let's make you know to upper
x in x or string, the string to uppercase.
Make another function exclaim.
We'll just, string close that these
are all my favorite functions.
I use them all the time.
And let's see, maybe we can do one more.
Let's do first.
Take a bunch of stuff and
just grab the first thing.
Great.
All right, so
we have some functions here
we got add to upper exclaim.
And we're gonna do is
talk about composition.
So define composition first.
So compose.
Compose takes two functions an f and
a g g and is defined as f of g of x.
So it takes it returns
a new function takes an x.
So in math, you would see it written
like that compose functions f and g.
Here, it's fairly similar.
So you'd say f composed
with g is just f of g
with the x there, something like that.
So, this is kind of interesting.
All we're saying is,
I take an f and I take a g and
I'm going to nest this function call.
Didn't highlight right, so I'm a little
worried but looks looks like it'd be fine.
So let's call to upper and exclaim.
Now, what's gonna happen is we'll
call this shout to tears for fears.
All right, how's even do that tears.
Okay, tears.
[LAUGH] That's that's what I
bring forth to you in this class.
So what's happening is each of these, this
function to upper becomes this g, right.
Exclaim becomes f.
So if we were actually like kind of fill
this out specialize to exclaim in to upper
it would look like to upper and
exclaim clean and
then since those are fixed or that.
So it's just nesting
right word is nest word.
So, we're able to kind of un nest
function calls by using compose.
It kind of unrolls it
into a nice pipeline.
And you'll see it's going right to left,
which is kind of interesting.
So, tears first get called to toUpper and
then we get the exclaim at the end.
Now, if we want to compose further
at the moment without any help from
ramadas compose,
we'll have to compose again.
Let's take the first from there,
so we get t.
So what's happening here is,
will compose these functions.
Which returns a new function.
Function composition returns a new
function, I give it f and g and
I got a new function back.
So it's very nice because that
means I can actually do these
sub compositions I get a new function
back and I can continue to compose.
Now, composes more than
just a helper function.
It's like the cornerstone [LAUGH]
of what we're doing here.
What's nice about it is
it's also associative.
So I can say, well, let me go ahead and
compose these new function.
And we'll compose the outer piece.
And it's the same example.
So it doesn't matter how
I nest the compositions.
So because it's associative,
it doesn't matter how I which,
which are run,
even though they're all defined in order,
I can kind of associate
the parentheses to the left or right.
So it means associative.
So we'll bring in this
compose here from lambda.
And now we get the same, but I can
actually take away the inner composed and
just give it as many as I want.
Because if I can nest it and it's
associative, I can just remove that and
make it a very attic one it doesn't,
they're equivalent.
So, here, it gets tears goes into
toUpper adds the exclamation and
then we throw it all in and
take the first thing.
[LAUGH] What if we move that over here?
There we go.
So I can actually do Martin Fowler's
extract method wherever I want and
I call this one, loudFirst.
Sorry I'm still in vim
mode in my head [LAUGH]
happens to the best of us.
And I can basically extract any sub
composition into its own composition.
Which is really nice.
It's like I've got all these Lego's and
I'm gonna create a pipeline for
my data to flow through.
And then the data will
go through each one and
that can break them out into their
own sub pipelines if I want.
Which is super cool.
Does anybody see how compose is
actually running right to left?
Kind of makes sense that
the argument would start here and
kind of flow through there, right?
If I gave it the argument over here,
it wouldn't.
It would be weird and left to right.
But there is often something called
pipe and it just does g of f of x.
We'll go left or right?
We're gonna do flip on compose
to define pipe fun times.